blog(lerobot): release 0.6.0 blog (#3447)
huggingface/blog: lerobot-release-v060.md

### VLA-JEPA

VLA-JEPA teaches a compact VLA (built on Qwen3-VL-2B) to predict the future in latent space while it learns to act: during training, a JEPA world model has to anticipate upcoming frames from the model's own actions. The trick is that the world model then disappears at inference, so you get world-model supervision at zero extra inference cost. Three ready-to-use checkpoints are on the Hub, including a DROID-pretrained base for fine-tuning:

```bash
lerobot-train \
  --policy.path=lerobot/VLA-JEPA-Pretrain \
  --dataset.repo_id=${HF_USER}/my_dataset \
  --policy.repo_id=${HF_USER}/my_finetuned_policy
```

Check out the [VLA-JEPA documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/lerobot/vla_jepa) and the [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.10098) to learn more.

![LingBot-VA imagined rollout vs real rollout](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/lerobot-blog/release-v0.6.0/gifs/lingbot_va_viz_1.gif)

### LingBot-VA

> LingBot-VA goes one step further: an autoregressive video-action model that predicts future video and actions together, chunk by chunk, and feeds real observations back in to keep its imagination grounded. You can even save what the robot imagined (`--policy.save_predicted_video=true`) and compare it with what actually happened, and inference runs on a single 24–32 GB GPU. Check out the [documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/lerobot/lingbot_va) and the [paper](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2601.21998) for the technical details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LingBot-VA goes one step further: an autoregressive video-action model that predicts future video and actions together, chunk by chunk, and feeds real observations back in to keep its imagination grounded. You can even save what the robot imagined (`--policy.save_predicted_video=true`) and compare it with what actually happened. Inference runs on a single 24–32 GB GPU. Check out the [documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/lerobot/lingbot_va) and the [paper](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2601.21998) for the technical details.
```

### Multitask DiT

The Multitask Diffusion Transformer policy brings the TRI Large Behavior Models recipe to LeRobot: a ~450M-parameter diffusion transformer conditioned on CLIP vision and language embeddings, so one model learns many tasks selected via natural language. It supports both diffusion and flow-matching objectives, and it is small enough to train yourself. See the [documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/lerobot/multi_task_dit).

### EVO1

VLAs don't have to be huge. EVO1 packs its policy into 0.77B parameters, an InternVL3-1B backbone with a flow-matching action head, small enough to fine-tune and run in real time on modest GPUs. It ships with two-stage fine-tuning and Real-Time Chunking support out of the box. See the [EVO1 documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/lerobot/evo1) and the [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2511.04555).

## Reward models: knowing when your robot succeeds

> Success detection and progress estimation are the missing halves of the robot learning loop, and v0.6.0 gives them a home. LeRobot now has a unified reward models API (`lerobot.rewards`), mirroring the policies API, with four reward models behind one interface: the HIL-SERL reward classifier, SARM, and two new additions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Success detection and progress estimation are missing pieces in the robot learning loop, and v0.6.0 gives them a home. LeRobot now has a unified reward models API (`lerobot.rewards`), mirroring the policies API, with four reward models behind one interface: the HIL-SERL reward classifier, SARM, and two new additions.
```

Reviewer: Are the two new additions "Robometer" and "TOPReward"? Perhaps we should clarify, or describe the four reward models that were mentioned.

Author: Yes, the 2 new additions are the ones described right after, 'Robometer' and 'TOPReward'. What do you think about replacing the last point with a colon to avoid repetition ?
 
 `with four reward models behind one interface - the HIL-SERL reward classifier, SARM, and two new additions:`

Author: Addressed in commit: https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/3447/changes/1b5bcf7c8641f9b2ea261b02aeed1e50630e0833

### Depth support, end to end

Plug in an Intel RealSense, set `use_depth: true`, and LeRobot records depth maps end to end: captured in millimeters, compressed as compact 12-bit depth video streams alongside your RGB cameras, and decoded back to physical units at training time. Depth renders live during recording and in `lerobot-dataset-viz`, and it works across SO-100/101, Koch, OpenArm, reBot, Unitree G1 and more.

![LeRobot Depth Camera](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/lerobot-blog/release-v0.6.0/gifs/depth2.gif)

### Language annotations at scale

Your dataset stops being one task string per episode. LeRobot datasets now natively store rich language annotations (timestamped subtasks, plans, memory, corrections, speech, and per-camera VQA pairs), and the new `lerobot-annotate` CLI fills them in automatically using a VLM that watches your episodes:

```bash
lerobot-annotate \
    --repo_id=${HF_USER}/my_dataset \
    --new_repo_id=${HF_USER}/my_dataset_annotated \
    --vlm.model_id=Qwen/Qwen2.5-VL-7B-Instruct \
    --push_to_hub=true
```

> A YAML recipe layer then renders these annotations into chat-style training messages at sample time: exactly the data tomorrow's long-horizon, talking robot policies will train on. Scale it up with HF Jobs, and read the [annotation pipeline docs](https://huggingface.co/docs/lerobot/annotation_pipeline) to learn more.

Reviewer: This sounds quite cool, perhaps we could show an example?

Author: This is indeed cool, but at the moment we don't have a polished demo. We are planning to do a full communication regarding this in which we explain more deeply what it is about and how it works in the near future. For now we keep it simple in the blogpost for reference mainly

Reviewer: Sounds good! This was the topic that caught my eye the most, looking forward to the additional comms!

Perhaps we could just show a dataset screenshot with a couple of enriched columns and that's it? But of course no worries if not!

### Up to 2x faster data loading

> Training on video datasets is now up to ~2x faster out of the box: multi-camera frames decode in parallel, dataloader workers ship compact uint8 frames (4x less memory between processes), and persistent workers keep decoder caches alive across epochs. Loading a subset of a large dataset (`episodes=[...]`) went from minutes to milliseconds (275 s down to 0.06 s in our benchmark). Sampling is also deterministic and resumable now, so interrupted trainings restart sample-exact.

Reviewer: Are the 12-bit depth layers encoded to uint8 as well?

Author: From the [docs](https://huggingface.co/docs/lerobot/main/en/video_encoding_parameters#depth-streams):

```
Depth maps (Intel RealSense, Reachy 2) are stored as their **own video streams** alongside the RGB \
streams. Raw depth (`uint16` millimetres or `float32` metres) can't survive an 8-bit codec, so LeRobot \
**quantizes** each map to a 12-bit code (`[0, 4095]`) — logarithmically by default, to match the `1/depth` \
error profile of depth sensors — then packs it into a high-bit-depth pixel format (`gray12le`) and encodes it \
with a 12-bit codec.
```

Reviewer: Makes sense, thank you!

- [RoboCasa365](https://huggingface.co/docs/lerobot/robocasa) spans 365 kitchen tasks in 2,500 procedurally generated kitchens on a mobile manipulator, the largest task surface in our lineup.
- [RoboCerebra](https://huggingface.co/docs/lerobot/robocerebra) evaluates long-horizon behavior with episodes that chain 3 to 6 sub-goals under language-grounded intermediate instructions, plus a 6,660-episode dataset.
- [RoboMME](https://huggingface.co/docs/lerobot/robomme) is a memory exam: can your policy count repetitions, track hidden objects, and imitate demonstrated procedures? 16 tasks across 4 memory suites.
- [VLABench](https://huggingface.co/docs/lerobot/vlabench) tests knowledge and reasoning in manipulation, from physics questions to composite tasks like brewing coffee end to end.

```bash
lerobot-eval \
  --policy.path=lerobot/smolvla_robotwin \
  --env.type=robotwin \
  --env.task=beat_block_hammer \
  --eval.n_episodes=100 --eval.batch_size=1
```

> Simulator backends are Linux affairs with their own install steps; each docs page has the exact recipe, and every benchmark ships a ready-made Docker image if you'd rather skip the setup.

Reviewer: what does "Linux affairs" mean?

Author: Like it requires system dependecies

Reviewer: Sounds a bit strange to me. Maybe "Linux environments"?

Author: Addressed in commit: https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/3447/changes/1b5bcf7c8641f9b2ea261b02aeed1e50630e0833

```

Deploy, collect corrections, fine-tune, repeat: the robot learning flywheel is now a CLI flag. Read the [deployment docs](https://huggingface.co/docs/lerobot/inference).

<!-- TODO: gif idea: DAgger takeover moment (policy fails, human grabs leader arm, correction recorded), hosted at documentation-images/lerobot-blog/release-v0.6.0/ -->

### FSDP: train models bigger than your GPU

Robot foundation models are outgrowing single GPUs. LeRobot training now supports FSDP (fully sharded data parallel) through Accelerate: parameters, gradients, and optimizer state are sharded across GPUs, and checkpoints are gathered back into a plain single-file `model.safetensors` that loads like any other policy. You can even resume an FSDP run on a different number of GPUs. See the [multi-GPU training docs](https://huggingface.co/docs/lerobot/multi_gpu_training).

### Cloud training with HF Jobs

No GPU? No problem. The exact same `lerobot-train` command now runs in the cloud by adding one flag:

```bash
lerobot-train \
  --dataset.repo_id=${HF_USER}/so101_test \
  --policy.type=act \
  --policy.repo_id=${HF_USER}/my_policy \
  --job.target=a10g-small
```

> LeRobot pushes your local dataset to a private Hub repo if needed, submits the job, streams logs to your terminal (Ctrl-C detaches, the job keeps running), and pushes the trained policy to the Hub at the end. Pick anything from a T4 to 8x H200 with `--job.target` (compute is billed pay-as-you-go). [Check out the documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/lerobot/hardware_guide#hugging-face-jobs)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LeRobot pushes your local dataset to a private Hub repo if needed, submits the job, streams logs to your terminal, and pushes the trained policy to the Hub at the end. Pick anything from a T4 to 8x H200 with `--job.target` (compute is billed pay-as-you-go). [Check out the documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/lerobot/hardware_guide#hugging-face-jobs)
```

Perhaps a bit distracting, don't think the clarification is necessary at this level of detail.

- Supported PyTorch moves to 2.7–2.11, with CUDA 12.8 wheels pinned out of the box for Linux `uv` installs. `--policy.dtype=bfloat16` now drives real mixed-precision training through Accelerate.
- A committed `uv.lock` is the authoritative dependency spec for CI, Docker, and development, and the docs include `uv` install routes for every step, down to picking your CUDA wheel with a single flag.
- `--display_mode=foxglove` streams teleoperation, recording, and rollouts to [Foxglove](https://foxglove.dev), the visualization tool much of the robotics world already uses. It works with remote setups, and `lerobot-dataset-viz` gets scrubbable dataset playback.
- Pip-installable `lerobot_env_*` packages now self-register their environments. The plugin system covers all five component types: robots, cameras, teleoperators, policies, and envs.
- Keyboard controls during recording now work on Wayland, over SSH, on headless rigs, and on macOS without Accessibility permissions.

> [!WARNING]
> Check the [release notes](https://github.com/huggingface/lerobot/releases) for the full list and migration pointers for the breaking changes.

> ![LeLab a graphical user interface for LeRobot](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/lerobot-blog/release-v0.6.0/gifs/LeLab.gif)

Reviewer: Should this belong to the next section where LeLab is introduced?

Author: I actually intentionally left it there (right in top of where `Lelab` is introduced) because I feel like putting it at the end of the section is not ideal (As this is the last section), I feel like the user needs something engaging to push through the last section of the blogpost hehe

---
title: "LeRobot v0.6.0: Imagine, Evaluate, Improve"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/lerobot-release-v060/thumbnail.png
authors:
  - user: imstevenpmwork
  - user: pepijn223
  - user: CarolinePascal
  - user: lilkm
  - user: Maximellerbach
  - user: nepyope
  - user: nikodembartnik
  - user: Nico-robot
  - user: thomwolf
---

# LeRobot v0.6.0: Imagine, Evaluate, Improve

This new release is about closing the robot learning loop: policies that imagine the future before acting, reward models that tell you when your robot succeeds, a deployment CLI that turns failures into training data, and six new simulation benchmarks to measure it all. It also brings depth sensing, VLM-powered dataset annotation, custom video encoding, cloud training on HF Jobs, and a much leaner install.

## TL;DR

> LeRobot v0.6.0 introduces world model policies (VLA-JEPA, FastWAM, LingBot-VA) that learn to imagine the future, a wave of new VLAs (GR00T N1.7, MolmoAct2, EO-1, EVO1, Multitask DiT), and a new reward models API (Robometer, TOPReward). It ships six new simulation benchmarks unified under `lerobot-eval`, the `lerobot-rollout` CLI with DAgger-style human-in-the-loop corrections, FSDP training, and cloud training on HF Jobs. Datasets get depth support, an automatic language annotation pipeline, custom video encoding, and up to 2x faster data loading, all on top of a leaner installation.

Reviewer 2: Could we surface Isaac Teleop a bit earlier in the release narrative, not as a standalone partner callout, but as part of the data collection / improvement loop? 

A brief mention in the TL;DR and, since the post is already about closing the robot learning loop, Isaac Teleop seems like there may be a fit near Datasets or lerobot-rollout / DAgger as another way to collect high-quality human control data into the LeRobot dataset format.

    - [Up to 2x faster data loading](#up-to-2x-faster-data-loading)
    - [Your codec, your rules](#your-codec-your-rules)
    - [Language annotations at scale](#language-annotations-at-scale)
    - [Depth support, end to end](#depth-support-end-to-end)
  - [Benchmarks: one CLI to evaluate them all](#benchmarks-one-cli-to-evaluate-them-all)
  - [Training & inference](#training--inference)
    - [lerobot-rollout: deployment gets its own CLI](#lerobot-rollout-deployment-gets-its-own-cli)
    - [FSDP: train models bigger than your GPU](#fsdp-train-models-bigger-than-your-gpu)
    - [Cloud training with HF Jobs](#cloud-training-with-hf-jobs)
    - [Better evals everywhere](#better-evals-everywhere)
  - [Codebase: leaner and cleaner](#codebase-leaner-and-cleaner)
    - [A note on breaking changes](#a-note-on-breaking-changes)
  - [Community & ecosystem](#community--ecosystem)
  - [Final thoughts](#final-thoughts)

## World models: policies that imagine

<!-- TODO: gif idea: LingBot-VA imagined rollout vs real rollout side-by-side (save_predicted_video), hosted at documentation-images/lerobot-blog/release-v0.6.0/ -->

> The robotics world is asking a big question: do world models actually help robot policies? v0.6.0 brings three policies to LeRobot that answer with a resounding yes. Each one learns to imagine the future as part of its training, and each takes a different path to keep that imagination affordable.

Reviewer 3: I would not claim un-claimable things, we haven't had the chance to clearly prove they are better. 
Can we consider changing the wording / key idea ?

Author: Addressed in: https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/3447/changes/1a6c37a526c52cb5986a493a4ff878aae6ef56b5

`The robotics world is asking a big question: do world models actually help robot policies? v0.6.0 brings three policies to LeRobot to help answer that question.`

- [RoboMME](https://huggingface.co/docs/lerobot/robomme) is a memory exam: can your policy count repetitions, track hidden objects, and imitate demonstrated procedures? 16 tasks across 4 memory suites.
- [VLABench](https://huggingface.co/docs/lerobot/vlabench) tests knowledge and reasoning in manipulation, from physics questions to composite tasks like brewing coffee end to end.

```bash
lerobot-eval \
  --policy.path=lerobot/smolvla_robotwin \
  --env.type=robotwin \
  --env.task=beat_block_hammer \
  --eval.n_episodes=100 --eval.batch_size=1
```

Simulator backends are Linux affairs with their own install steps; each docs page has the exact recipe, and every benchmark ships a ready-made Docker image if you'd rather skip the setup.

Together with LIBERO, Meta-World, and NVIDIA IsaacLab-Arena, that makes nine benchmark families under one roof, and a new [Adding a New Benchmark guide](https://huggingface.co/docs/lerobot/adding_benchmarks) documents exactly how to plug in yours. Evaluation also got faster: parallel eval now defaults to async vectorized environments, benchmarked at up to 2x faster.

## Training & inference

### lerobot-rollout: deployment gets its own CLI

> Deploying a policy used to be a hack on top of `lerobot-record`. The new `lerobot-rollout` CLI makes deployment its own workflow, with pluggable strategies and inference backends (including Real-Time Chunking for slow VLAs). The `base` strategy just runs the policy. `sentry` records continuously, rotating episodes and uploading to the Hub as it goes. `highlight` keeps a ring buffer and saves the last N seconds when you hit a key, so an interesting moment is never lost. `episodic` mirrors the classic episode/reset recording workflow. And `dagger` turns deployment into data collection.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Deploying a policy used to be a hack on top of `lerobot-record`. The new `lerobot-rollout` CLI makes deployment its own workflow, with pluggable strategies and inference backends (including Real-Time Chunking for slow compatible VLAs). The `base` strategy just runs the policy. `sentry` records continuously, rotating episodes and uploading to the Hub as it goes. `highlight` keeps a ring buffer and saves the last N seconds when you hit a key, so an interesting moment is never lost. `episodic` mirrors the classic episode/reset recording workflow. And `dagger` turns deployment into data collection.
```

- Supported PyTorch moves to 2.7–2.11, with CUDA 12.8 wheels pinned out of the box for Linux `uv` installs. `--policy.dtype=bfloat16` now drives real mixed-precision training through Accelerate.
- A committed `uv.lock` is the authoritative dependency spec for CI, Docker, and development, and the docs include `uv` install routes for every step, down to picking your CUDA wheel with a single flag.
- `--display_mode=foxglove` streams teleoperation, recording, and rollouts to [Foxglove](https://foxglove.dev), the visualization tool much of the robotics world already uses. It works with remote setups, and `lerobot-dataset-viz` gets scrubbable dataset playback.
- Pip-installable `lerobot_env_*` packages now self-register their environments. The plugin system covers all five component types: robots, cameras, teleoperators, policies, and envs.
- Keyboard controls during recording now work on Wayland, over SSH, on headless rigs, and on macOS without Accessibility permissions.

> ### A note on breaking changes

Reviewer 4: (Optional) We now have a better support for system wide ffmpeg installs (but because it's only true with the latest torchcodec versions, I wouldn't brag too much)

v0.6.0 cleans house, and a few changes need your attention when upgrading:

- `pip install lerobot` no longer includes dataset or training dependencies; add the extra you need (e.g. `lerobot[training]`).
- GR00T N1.5 is replaced by N1.7 (pin `lerobot==0.5.1` if you need N1.5).
- The minimum PyTorch version is now 2.7.
- `eval_freq` was renamed to `env_eval_freq` in the train config.
- The RL stack was rebuilt: the `sac` policy type is now `gaussian_actor` under the new modular RL API.

> - Legacy per-frame `subtask_index` annotations are superseded by the new language columns.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Legacy per-frame `subtask_index` annotations are superseded by the new language columns.
- `--dataset.vcodec` was renamed to `--dataset.rgb_encoder.vcodec`, such that RGB and depth cameras video codecs may be set separately.
```
